18.
Merry days were these at Thornfield Hall, and busy days too.
How different from the first three months of stillness, monotony, and solitude I had
passed beneath its roof!
All sad feelings seemed now driven from the house, all gloomy associations forgotten.
There was life everywhere, movement all day long.
You could not now traverse the gallery, once so hushed, nor enter the front chambers, once
so tenantless, without encountering a smart lady's maid or a dandy valet.
The kitchen, the butler's pantry, the servant's hall, the entrance hall were equally alive,
and the saloons were only left void and still when the blue sky and halcyon sunshine of
the genial spring weather called their occupants out into the grounds.
Even when that weather was broken, and continuous rain set in for some days, no damp seemed
cast over enjoyment.
Indoor amusements only became more lively and varied, in consequence of the stop put
to outdoor gaiety.
I wondered what they were going to do the first evening a change of entertainment was
proposed.
They spoke of playing charades, but in my ignorance I did not understand the term.
The servants were called in, the dining-room tables wheeled away, the lights otherwise
disposed, the chairs placed in a semi-circle opposite the arch.
While Mr. Rochester and the other gentlemen directed these alterations, the ladies were
running up and down stairs, ringing for their maids.
Mrs. Fairfax was summoned to give information respecting the resources of the house in shawls,
draperies of any kind, and certain wardrobes of the third story were ransacked, and their
contents, in the shape of brocaded and hooped petticoats, satin sacks, black modes, lace
lapettes, etc., were brought down in the armfuls by the Abigail's.
Then a selection was made, and such things as were chosen were carried to the boudoir
within the drawing-room.
Meantime Mr. Rochester had again summoned the ladies around him, and was selecting certain
of their number to be of his party.
"'Miss Ingram is mine, of course,' said he.
Afterwards he named the two Mrs. Eshton and Mrs. Dent.
He looked at me, I happened to be near him, as I had been fastening the clasp of Mrs.
Dent's bracelet, which had gotten loose.
"'Will you play?' he asked.
I shook my head.
He did not insist, which I rather feared he would have done.
He allowed me to return quietly to my usual seat.
He and his aides now withdrew behind the curtain.
The other party, which was headed by Colonel Dent, sat down on the crescent of chairs.
One of the gentlemen, Mr. Eshton, observing me, seemed to propose that I should be asked
to join them, but Lady Ingram instantly negatived the notion.
"'No,' I heard her say.
She looks too stupid for any game of the sort.'
Ere long a bell tinkled, and the curtain drew up.
Within the arch, the bulky figure of Sir George Lynn, whom Mr. Rochester had likewise chosen,
was seen enveloped in a white sheet.
Before him, on a table, lay open a large book, and at his side stood Amy Eshton, draped in
Mr. Rochester's cloak and holding a book in her hand.
Somebody unseen rang a bell merrily, then Adèle, who had insisted on being one of her
guardians' party, bounded forward, scattering round her the contents of a basket of flowers
she carried on her arm.
Then appeared the magnificent figure of Miss Ingram, clad in white, a long veil on her
head, and a wreath of roses round her brow.
By her side walked Mr. Rochester, and together they drew near the table.
They knelt, while Mrs. Dent and Louisa Eshton, dressed also in white, took up their stations
behind them.
A ceremony followed, in dumb show, in which it was easy to recognize the pantomime of
a marriage.
At its termination, Colonel Dent and his party consulted in whispers for two minutes, then
the Colonel called out,
"'Bride!'
Mr. Rochester bowed, and the curtain fell.
A considerable interval elapsed before it rose again.
Its second rising displayed a more elaborately prepared scene than the last.
The drawing-room, as I have before observed, was raised two steps above the dining-room,
and on the top of the upper step, placed a yard or two back within the room, appeared
a large marble basin, which I recognized as an ornament of the Conservatory, where it
usually stood, surrounded by exotics and tenanted by goldfish, and whence it must have been
transported with some trouble, on account of its size and weight.
Seated on the table, by the side of this basin, was seen Mr. Rochester, costumed in shawls,
with a turban on his head.
His dark eyes and swarthy skin and panum features suited the costume exactly.
He looked the very model of an Eastern emir, an agent or a victim of the bow-string.
Presently advanced into view Miss Ingram.
She too was attired in Oriental fashion, a crimson scarf tied sash-like round the waist,
an embroidered handkerchief knotted about her temples, her beautifully molded arms bare,
one of them upraised in the act of supporting a pitcher, poised gracefully on her head.
Both her cast of form and feature, her complexion and her general air, suggested the idea of
some Israeliteish princess of the patriarchal days, and such was doubtless the character
she intended to represent.
She approached the basin, and bent over it as if to fill her pitcher.
She again lifted it to her head.
The personage on the well-brink now seemed to accost her to make some request.
She hasted, let down her pitcher on her hand, and gave him to drink.
From the bosom of his robe, then produced a casket, opened it, and showed magnificent
bracelets and earrings, she acted astonishment and admiration.
Kneeling he laid the treasure at her feet.
In credulity and delight were expressed by her looks and gestures.
The stranger fastened the bracelets on her arms and the rings in her ears.
It was Eliezer and Rebecca.
The camels only were wanting.
The divining party again laid their heads together.
Apparently it could not agree about the word or syllable the scene illustrated.
Colonel Dent, their spokesman, demanded the tableau of the whole, whereupon the curtain
again descended.
On its third rising, only a portion of the drawing-room was disclosed, the rest being
concealed by a screen, hung with some sort of dark and coarse drapery.
The marble basin was removed.
In its place stood a deal table and a kitchen chair.
These objects were visible by a very dim light proceeding from a horn lantern, the wax candles
being all extinguished.
Amidst this sordid scene sat a man with his clenched hands resting on his knees, and
his eyes bent on the ground.
I knew Mr. Rochester, though the begrimed face, the disordered dress, his coat hanging
loose from one arm, as if it had been almost torn from his back in a scuffle.
The desperate and scowling countenance, the rough bristling hair, might well have disguised
him.
As he moved, a chain clanked.
To his wrists were attached fetters.
Bridewell, exclaimed Colonel Dent, and the charade was solved.
A sufficient interval having elapsed for the performers to resume their ordinary costume,
they re-entered the dining-room.
Mr. Rochester led in Miss Ingram.
She was complimenting him on his acting.
"'Do you know,' said she, "'that of the three characters I liked you in the last best?
Oh, had you but lived a few years earlier, what a gallant gentleman-high-woman you would
have made!'
"'Is all the soot washed from my face?' he asked, turning it toward her.
"'Alas, yes, the more's the pity.
Nothing could be more becoming to your complexion than Ruffian's rouge.
You would like a hero of the road, then?'
An English hero of the road would be the next best thing to an Italian bandit, and that
could only be surpassed by a Levantine pirate.
Well, whatever I am, remember you are my wife.
We were married an hour since, in the presence of all these witnesses.'
She giggled, and her colour rose.
"'Now, Dent,' continued Mr. Rochester, "'it is your turn.'
And as the other party withdrew, he and his band took the vacated seats.
Miss Ingram placed herself at her leader's right hand.
The other diviners filled the chairs on either side of him and her.
I did not now watch the actors.
I no longer waited with interest for the curtain to rise.
My attention was absorbed by the spectators.
My eyes, air while fixed on the arch, were now irresistibly attracted to the semicircle
of chairs.
What charade Colonel Dent and his party played, what word they chose, how they acquitted themselves,
I no longer remember.
But I still see the consultation which followed each scene.
I see Mr. Rochester turn to Miss Ingram, and Miss Ingram to him.
I see her incline her head towards him till the jetty curls almost touch his shoulder
and wave against his cheek.
I hear their mutual whisperings.
I recall their interchanged glances, and something even of the feeling roused by the spectacle
returns in memory at this moment.
I have told you, reader, that I had learned to love Mr. Rochester.
I could not unlove him now, merely because I found that he had ceased to notice me, because
I might pass hours in his presence, and he would never once turn his eyes in my direction,
because I saw all his attentions appropriated by a great lady who scorned to touch me with
the hem of her robes as she passed, who, if ever her dark and imperious eye fell on
me by chance, would withdraw it instantly, as from an object too mean to merit observation.
I could not unlove him, because I felt sure he would soon marry this very lady, because
I read daily in her a proud security in his intentions respecting her, because I witnessed
hourly in him a style of courtship which, if careless and choosing rather to be sought
than to seek, was yet in its very carelessness captivating, and in its very pride irresistible.
There was nothing to cool or banish love in these circumstances, though much to create
despair. Much too, you will think, reader, to engender jealousy, if a woman in my position
could presume to be jealous of a woman in Miss Ingram's. But I was not jealous, or
very rarely. The nature of the pain I suffered could not be explained by that word. Miss
Ingram was a mark beneath jealousy. She was too inferior to excite the feeling. Pardon
the seeming paradox, I mean what I say. She was very showy, but she was not genuine. She
had a fine person, many brilliant attainments, but her mind was poor, her heart barren by
nature. Nothing bloomed spontaneously on that soil, no unforced natural fruit delighted
by its freshness. She was not good. She was not original. She used to repeat sounding
phrases from books. She never offered or had an opinion of her own. She advocated a high
tone of sentiment, but she did not know the sensations of sympathy and pity. Tenderness
and truth were not in her. Too often she betrayed this. By the undue vent she gave to a spiteful
antipathy she had conceived against little Adèle, pushing her away with some contumilius
epithet if she happened to approach her, sometimes ordering her from the room, and always treating
her with coldness and acrimony. Other eyes besides mine watched these manifestations
of character, watched them closely, keenly, shrewdly. Yes, the future bridegroom, Mr.
Rochester himself, exercised over his intended a ceaseless surveillance, and it was from
this sagacity, this guardedness of his, this perfect clear consciousness of his fair one's
defects, this obvious absence of passion in his sentiments towards her, that my ever-torturing
pain arose. I saw that he was going to marry her for family, perhaps political reasons,
because her rank and connections suited him. I felt he had not given her his love, and
that her qualifications were ill-adapted to win from him that treasure. This was the point.
This was where the nerve was touched and teased. This was where the fever was sustained and
fed. She could not charm him. If she had managed the victory at once, and
he had yielded, and sincerely laid his heart at her feet, I should have covered my face,
turned to the wall, and figuratively have died to them. If Miss Ingram had been a good
and noble woman, endowed with force, fervour, kindness, sense, I should have had one vital
struggle with two tigers, jealousy and despair. Then my heart torn out and devoured, I should
have admired her, acknowledged her excellence, and been quiet for the rest of my days. And
the more absolute her superiority, the deeper would have been my admiration, the more truly
tranquil my quiescence. But as matters really stood, to watch Miss Ingram's efforts at
fascinating Mr. Rochester, to witness their repeated failure, herself unconscious that
they did fail, vainly fancying that each shaft hit the mark, and infatuatedly pluming herself
on success, when her pride and self-complacency repelled further and further what she wished
to allure, to witness this was to be at once under ceaseless excitation and ruthless restraint.
Because when she failed, I saw how she might have succeeded. Arrows that continually glanced
off from Mr. Rochester's breast, and fell harmless at his feet, might, I knew, if shot
by a surer hand, have quivered keen in his proud heart, have called love into his stern
eye and softness into his sardonic face, or better still, without weapons, a silent conquest
might have been won. Why can she not influence him more when she is privileged to draw so
near to him? I asked myself. Surely she cannot truly like him, or not like him with true
affection. If she did, she need not coin her smile so lavishly, flash her glances so unremittingly,
manufacture airs so elaborate, graces so multitudinous. It seems to me that she might, by merely
sitting quietly at his side, saying little and looking less, get nigher his heart.
I have seen in his face a far different expression from that which hardens it now, while she
is so vivaciously accosting him. But then it came of itself. It was not elicited by
meretricious arts and calculated manoeuvres, and one had but to accept it, to answer what
he asked without pretension, to address him when needful, without grimace, and it increased,
and grew kindlier and more genial, and warmed one like a fostering sunbeam. How will she
manage to please him when they are married? I do not think she will manage it, and yet
it might be managed, and his wife might, I verily believe, be the very happiest woman
the sun shines on.
I have not yet said anything condemnatory of Mr. Rochester's project of marrying for
interest and connections. It surprised me when I first discovered that such was his
intention. I had thought him a man unlikely to be influenced by motives so commonplace
in his choice of a wife. But the longer I considered the position, education, etc. of
the parties, the less I felt justified in judging and blaming either him or Miss Ingram
for acting in conformity to ideas and principles instilled into them, doubtless from their
childhood. All their class held these principles. I supposed, then, that they had reasons for
holding them such as I could not fathom. It seemed to me that, were I a gentleman like
him, I would take to my bosom only such a wife as I could love. But the very obviousness
to the husband's own happiness offered by this plan convinced me that there must be
arguments against its general adoption of which I was quite ignorant. Otherwise I felt
sure all the world would act as I wished to act.
But in other points, as well as this, I was growing very lenient to my master. I was forgetting
all his faults, for which I had once kept a sharp look-out. It had formerly been my
endeavour to study all sides of his character, to take the bad with the good, and from the
trust weighing of both, to form an equitable judgment. Now I saw no bad. The sarcasm that
had repelled, the harshness that had startled me once, were only like keen condiments in
a choice dish. Their presence was pungent, but their absence would be felt as comparatively
insipid. And as for the vague something, was it a sinister or a sorrowful, a designing
or a desponding expression, that opened upon a careful observer now and then in his eye,
and closed again before one could fathom the strange depth partially disclosed? That something
which used to make me fear and shrink, as if I had been wandering amongst volcanic-looking
hills, and had suddenly felt the ground quiver and seen it gape, that something I, at intervals,
beheld still, and with throbbing heart, but not with palsied nerves. Instead of wishing
to shun, I longed only to dare, to divine it, and I thought Miss Ingram happy because
one day she might look into the abyss at her leisure, explore its secrets, and analyse
their nature. Meantime, while I thought only of my master and his future bride, saw only
them, heard only their discourse, and considered only their movements of importance, the rest
of the party were occupied with their own separate interests and pleasures. The ladies
Lin and Ingram continued to consort in solemn conferences when they nodded their two turbans
and held up their forehands in confronting gestures of surprise or mystery or horror,
according to the theme on which their gossip ran, like a pair of magnified puppets. Mild
Mrs. Dent talked with good-natured Mrs. Eshton, and the two sometimes bestowed a courteous
word or smile on me. Sir George Lin, Colonel Dent, and Mr. Eshton discussed politics or
county affairs or justice business. Lord Ingram flirted with Amy Eshton. Louisa played and
sang to and with one of the messers Lin, and Mary Ingram listened languidly to the gallant
speeches of the other. Sometimes all, as with one consent, suspended their by-play to observe
and listen to the principal actors, for, after all, Mr. Rochester and, because closely connected
with him, Miss Ingram, were the life and soul of the party. If he was absent from the room
an hour, a perceptible dullness seemed to steal over the spirits of his guests, and
his re-entrance was sure to give a fresh impulse to the vivacity of conversation.
The want of his animating influence appeared to be peculiarly felt on one day that he had
been summoned to Millcote on business, and was not likely to return until late. The afternoon
was wet. A walk the party had proposed to take to see a gypsy camp, lately pitched on
a common beyond Hay, was consequently deferred. Some of the gentlemen were gone to the stables.
The younger ones, together with the younger ladies, were playing billiards in the billiard-room.
The dowagers Ingram and Lin sought solace in a quiet game at cards. Blanche Ingram,
after having repelled by supercilious taciturnity some efforts of Mrs. Dent and Mrs. Eshton
to draw her into conversation, had first murmured over some sentimental tunes and eras on the
piano, and then, having fetched a novel from the library, had flung herself in haughty
on a sofa, and prepared to beguile, by the spell of fiction, the tedious hours of absence.
The room and house were silent. Only now and then the merriment of the billiard-players
was heard from above. It was verging on dusk, and the clock had already given warning of
the hour to dress for dinner, when little Adèle, who knelt by me in the drawing-room
window-seat, suddenly exclaimed,
I turned, and Miss Ingram darted forward from her sofa. The others, too, looked up from
their several occupations, for at the same time a crunching of wheels and a splashing
tramp of horse-hooves became audible on the wet gravel. A post-chase was approaching.
"'What can possess him to come home in that style?' said Miss Ingram. He rode Monsieur
the black horse, did he not, when he went out, and Pilot was with him. What has he done
with the animals?' As she said this, she approached her tall person and ample garments
so near the window that I was obliged to bend back almost to the breaking of my spine. In
her eagerness she did not observe me at first, but when she did, she curled her lip and moved
to another casement. The post-chase stopped. The driver rang the door-bell, and a gentleman
alighted in travelling garb. But it was not Mr. Rochester. It was a tall, fashionable-looking
man, a stranger.
"'How provoking!' exclaimed Miss Ingram. "'You tiresome monkey!' apostrophising
Adele, who perched you up in the window to give false intelligence. And she cast on me
an angry glance, as if I were in fault. Some parlaying was audible in the hall, and soon
the newcomer entered. He bowed to Lady Ingram, as deeming her the eldest lady present.
"'It appears I come at an inopportune time, madam,' said he, when my friend Mr. Rochester
is from home. But I arrive from a very long journey, and I think I may presume so far
on old and intimate acquaintance as to install myself here till he returns. His manner was
polite. His accent, in speaking, struck me as being somewhat unusual, not precisely foreign,
but still not altogether English. His age might be about Mr. Rochester's, between thirty
and forty. His complexion was singularly sallow. Otherwise he was a fine-looking man, at first
quite especially. On closer examination you detected something in his face that displeased,
or rather that failed to please. His features were regular, but too relaxed. His eye was
large and well cut, but the life looking out of it was a tame vacant life. At least so
I thought. The sound of the dressing-bell dispersed the
party. It was not quite till after dinner that I saw him again. He seemed quite a disease.
But I liked his physiognomy even less than before. It struck me as being at the same
time unsettled and inanimate. His eye wandered, and had no meaning in its wandering. This
gave him an odd look, such as I never remembered to have seen. For a handsome and not an unamiable
looking man, he repelled me exceedingly. There was no power in that smooth-skinned face of
a full oval shape, no firmness in that aquiline nose and small cherry mouth. There was no thought
on the low even forehead, no command in the blank brown eye. As I sat in my usual nook,
and looked at him with the light of the gerundoles on the pantalpiece beaming full over him,
for he occupied an armchair drawn close to the fire, and kept shrinking still nearer
as if he were cold, I compared him with Mr. Rochester. I think, with deference be it spoken,
the contrast could not be much greater between a sleek gander and a fierce falcon, between
a meek sheep and the rough-coated keen-eyed dog, its guardian. He had spoken of Mr. Rochester
as an old friend. A curious friendship theirs must have been, a pointed illustration indeed
of the old adage that extremes meet. Two or three of the gentlemen sat near him, and I
caught at times scraps of their conversation across the room. At first I could not make
much sense of what I had heard, for the discourse of Louisa Eshton and Mary Ingram, who sat
confused the fragmentary sentences that reached me at intervals. These last were discussing
the stranger. They both called him a beautiful man. Louisa said he was a love of a creature,
and she adored him, and Mary instanced his pretty little mouth and nice nose as her ideal
of the charming.
"'And what sweet-tempered forehead he has!' cried Louisa. "'So smooth! None of those
acid eye and smile!'
And then, to my great relief, Mr. Henry Lyne summoned them to the other side of the room,
to settle some point about the deferred excursion to Haycommon.
I was now able to concentrate my attention on the group by the fire, and I presently
gathered that the new-comer was called Mr. Mason. Then I learned that he was but just
arrived in England, and that he came from some hot country, which was the reason doubtless
his face was so sallow, and he sat so near the hearth, and wore a shirt-out in the house.
Presently the words Jamaica, Kingston, Spanish Town, indicated the West Indies as his residence,
and it was with no little surprise that I gathered ere long that he had first seen and
become acquainted with Mr. Rochester. He spoke of his friend's dislike of the burning heats,
the hurricanes, and the rainy seasons of that region. I knew Mr. Rochester had been
Mrs. Fairfax had said so, but I thought the continent of Europe had bounded his wanderings.
Till now I had never heard a hint given of visits to more distant shores. I was pondering
these things when an incident, and a somewhat unexpected one, broke the thread of my musings.
Mr. Mason, shivering as some one chanced to open the door, asked for more coal to be put
on the fire, which had burnt out its flame, though its mass of cinder still shone hot
and red. The footman who had brought the coal in going out stopped near Mr. Eshton's chair,
and said something to him in a low voice, of which I heard only the words, Old Woman,
quite troublesome.
"'Tell her she shall be put in the stocks if she does not take herself off,' replied
the magistrate.
"'No stop,' interrupted Colonel Dent. "'Don't send her away, Eshton. We might turn the
thing to account. Better consult the ladies.' And speaking aloud, he continued, "'Ladies,
you talked of going to Hay Common to visit the gypsy camp. Sam here says that one of
the old mother-bunches is in the servants' hall at this moment, and insists upon being
brought in before the quality to tell them their fortunes. Would you like to see her?'
"'Surely, Colonel,' cried Lady Ingram, "'you would not encourage such a low imposter.
Dismiss her by all means at once.'
"'I cannot persuade her to go away, my lady,' said the footman, "'nor can any of the servants.
Mrs. Fairfax is with her just now, entreating her to be gone. But she has taken a chair
in the chimney-corner, and says nothing shall stir her from it till she gets leave to come
in here.'
"'What does she want?' asked Mrs. Eshton.
"'To tell the gentry their fortunes,' she says, ma'am. She swears she must and will
do it.'
"'What does she like?' inquired the Mrs. Eshton, in a breath.
"'A shockingly ugly old creature, Miss, almost as black as a croc.'
"'Why, she's a real sorceress,' cried Frederick Lynn.
"'Let us have her in, of course.'
"'To be sure,' rejoined his brother,
"'it would be a thousand pities to throw away such a chance of fun.'
"'My dear boys, what are you thinking about?' exclaimed Mrs. Lynn.
"'I cannot possibly countenance any such inconsistent proceeding,' chimed in the dowager Ingram.
"'Indeed, ma'am, but you can, and will,' pronounced the haughty voice of Blanche,
as she turned round on the piano-stool, where till now she had sat silent, apparently examining
sundry sheets of music.
"'I have a curiosity to hear my fortune told. Therefore, Sam, order the beldame forward.'
"'My darling Blanche, recollect.'
"'I do. I recollect all you can suggest, and I must have my will. Quick, Sam.'
"'Yes, yes, yes,' cried all the juveniles, both ladies and gentlemen.
"'Let her come. It will be excellent sport.'
The footman still lingered.
"'She looks such a rough one,' said he.
"'Go!' ejaculated Miss Ingram. And the man went.
Excitement instantly seized the whole party.
A running fire of raillery and jests was proceeding when Sam returned.
"'She won't come now,' said he.
"'She says it's not her mission to appear before the vulgar herd.
"'Them's her words. I must show her into a room by herself,
and then those who wish to consult her must go to her one by one.'
"'You see now, my queenly Blanche,' began Lady Ingram.
"'She encroaches. Be advised, my angel girl, and—'
"'Show her into the library, of course,' cut in the angel girl.
"'It is not my mission to listen to her before the vulgar herd, either.
I mean to have her all to myself. Is there a fire in the library?'
"'Yes, ma'am. But she looks such a tinkler.'
"'Cease that chatter, blockhead, and do my bidding.'
Again Sam vanished, and mystery, animation, expectation rose to full
flow once more. "'She's ready now,' said the footman, as he reappeared.
"'She wishes to know who will be her first visitor.'
"'I think I had better just look in upon her before any of the ladies go,'
said Colonel Dent. "'Tell her Sam a gentleman is coming.'
Sam went, and returned. "'She says, sir, that she'll have no gentleman.
They need not trouble themselves to come near her.'
Nor,' he added with difficulty, suppressing a titter,
"'any ladies either, except the young and the single.'
"'By Jove, she has taste!' exclaimed Henry Lynn. Miss Ingram rose solemnly.
"'I go first,' she said, in a tone which might have befitted the leader
of A Forlorn Hope, mounting a breach in the van of his men.
"'Oh, my best, oh, my dearest, pause, reflect!' was her mamma's cry.
But she swept past her in stately silence, passed through the door,
which Colonel Dent held open, and we heard her enter the library.
A comparative silence ensued. Lady Ingram thought it lecar to ring her
hands, which she did accordingly. Miss Mary declared she felt for her
part she never dared venture. Amy and Louisa Ashton tittered under their
breath, and looked a little frightened. The minutes passed very slowly.
Fifteen were counted before the library door again opened. Miss Ingram
returned to us through the arch. Would she laugh? Would she take it as a
joke? All eyes met her with a glance of eager curiosity, and she met all
eyes with one of rebuff and coldness. She looked neither flurried nor merry.
She walked stiffly to her seat, and took it in silence.
"'Well, Blanche?' said Lord Ingram.
"'What did she say, sister?' asked Mary.
"'What do you think? How do you feel? Is she a real fortune-teller?'
demanded the Mrs. Ashton.
"'Now, now, good people,' returned Miss Ingram.
"'Don't press upon me. Really, your organs of wonder and credulity are
easily excited. You seem, by the importance of you all—my good mamma
included—to ascribe to this matter, absolutely to believe that we have
a genuine witch in the house who is in close alliance with the old
gentleman. I have seen a gypsy vagabond, she has practised in hackneyed
fashion the science of palmistry, and told me what such people usually
tell. My whim is gratified, and now I think Mr. Ashton will do well to
put the hag in the stocks to-morrow morning, as he threatened.'
Miss Ingram took a book, lent back in her chair, and so declined further
conversation. I watched her for nearly half an hour. During all that time
she never turned a page, and her face grew momentarily darker, more
dissatisfied, and more sourly expressive of disappointment. She had
obviously not heard anything to her advantage, and it seemed to me from
her prolonged fit of gloom and taciturnity that she herself, notwithstanding
her professed indifference, attached undue importance to
had been made her. Meantime Mary Ingram, Amy, and Louisa Ashton declared
they dared not go alone, and yet they all wished to go. A negotiation
was opened through the medium of the Ambassador, Sam, and after much
pacing to and fro, till I think the said Sam's calves must have ached
with the exercise, permission was at last, with great difficulty,
extorted from the rigorous Sybil, for the three to wait upon her in a
Their visit was not so still as Miss Ingram's had been. We heard
hysterical giggling, and little shrieks proceeding from the library,
and at the end of about twenty minutes they burst the door open and
came running across the hall, as if they were half scared out of their
wits.
"'I am sure she is something not right,' they cried, one and all.
"'She told us such things. She knows all about us.' And they sank
breathless into the various seats the gentlemen hastened to bring
them. Pressed for further explanation, they declared she had told
them of things they had said and done when they were mere children,
described books and ornaments they had in their bidoires at home,
keepsakes that different relations had presented to them. They had
affirmed that she had even divined their thoughts, and had whispered
in the ear of each the name of the person she liked best in the world,
and informed them of what they wished for most. Here the gentlemen
interposed with earnest petitions to be further enlightened on these
two last-named points, but they got only blushes, ejaculations, tremors
and titters in return for their importunity. The matrons, meantime,
offered vinaigrettes and wielded fans, and again and again reiterated
the expression of their concern that their warning had not been taken
in time. And the elder gentlemen laughed, and the younger urged their
services on the agitated fair ones. In the midst of the tumult, and
while my eyes and ears were fully engaged in the scene before me, I
heard a hem close at my elbow. I turned, and saw Sam.
If you please, Miss, the gypsy declares that there is another young
single lady in the room who has not been to her yet, and she swears she
will not go till she has seen all. I thought it must be you. There is
no one else for it. What shall I tell her?
Oh, I will go by all means, I answered, and I was glad of the
unexpected opportunity to gratify my much excited curiosity. I slipped
out of the room, unobserved by any eye, for the company were gathered in
one mass about the trembling trio just returned, and I closed the door
quietly behind me.
If you like, Miss, said Sam, I'll wait in the hall for you, and if she
frightens you, just call and I'll come in. No, Sam, return to the
kitchen. I am not in the least afraid.
Nor was I, but I was a good deal interested and excited.
End of chapter 18.